In today's interconnected world, information security has become a
paramount concern for individuals and organizations.

The increasing complexity and sophistication of cyber threats necessitate
the development of robust and effective intrusion detection systems
(IDS) to safeguard sensitive data and networks.

IDS plays a crucial role in identifying and mitigating security attacks by
monitoring network traffic and identifying anomalous behaviors.

Traditional IDS approaches often rely on rule-based or signature-based
methods, which are limited in their ability to detect novel or previously
unknown attacks.

To address this limitation this project proposes an advanced intrusion
detection system for predicting security attacks using hybrid LSTM-
GRU classifiers.

In recent years, recurrent neural networks (RNNs) such as hybrid Long
Short-Term Memory (LSTM)-Gated Recurrent Units (GRUs) have
emerged as powerful tools in the field of intrusion detection.

This project proposes an intrusion detection system for predicting
security attacks using hybrid LSTM-GRU classifiers.

Initially input dataset is gathered for data preprocessing. Data
preprocessing is the concept of changing the raw data into a clean data
set.

The dataset is preprocessed in order to check missing values, noisy data,
and other inconsistencies before executing it to the data exploration.

It refers to the initial step in data analysis in which data analysts use data
visualization and statistical techniques to describe dataset
characterizations.

These dataset is further moved to feature selection. Main goal of feature
selection is to select best features and reduce the computational cost of
modeling.

The selected features are classified by using hybrid LSTM-GRU
classifiers. It solves the exploding and vanishing gradient problem.

Finally in model evaluation accuracy, recall, f1score, precision are
predicted by using this classifier. This project is implemented in python
language.